ever since the founding of Israel in
1948 Ultra Orthodox Jews have been
exempt from the military draft so they
can devote themselves to religious study
when first introduced the policy only
applied to 400 students today that
number has swelled to 66,000 young men a
fighting age who the Army couldn't call
on for its war in Gaza but last month
Israel's Top Court effectively lifted
that exemption triggering huge protests
from the Orthodox Community now the
government under Benjamin Netanyahu has
until the end of April to agree a new
conscription
plan but the negotiations are especially
fraught as his Coalition includes two
ultra Orthodox parties DW's amian aif
reports on the political uproar that is
the latest threat to Israel's wartime
government the ultra Orthodox life is a
deeply religious one their calling is to
pray and to study the Torah many of the
men brought their holy books with them
to this
protest picket signs here say they'd
rather die than abandon their Traditions
those Traditions have so far spared them
from serving in the Israeli Armed Forces
all other Israeli Jewish men are
supposed to serve at least 32 months and
women 24 and most think the ultra
Orthodox should do the same
now but the men here who call themselves
heredi or fromma people don't even see
themselves as
Israeli nobody here is going to go to
army they want to go to jail and they're
not going to go to the Army are you
against uh the war in Gaza right now
it's not it's not the issue here no it's
not the issue it's not no not not the
issue so you don't have a you don't have
an opinion on it's not it's not it's not
it's not the issue they want us for
years to make the Israelis they want us
to they see that the former people want
they getting growing and they want us to
be like them and we want to be live like
our life that we lived for many years
for hundreds and years and we're not
going to be going to the Army heri Jews
see Israel as a secular country which
they say is in violation of the Torah
and therefore has no authority over them
the Jew is not allowed to enter Israel
and make a state until the Messiah comes
which we waiting for him and and that's
what they did 80 years ago we're stuck
with it with all the problems that come
with it the protest began with prayers
but soon the younger men marched toward
the nearby military recruitment office a
somewhat mismatch standoff ensues the
ultra Orthodox are not
[Music]
pacifists things are heating up here at
the protest in front of the IDF
recruiting headquarters uh things were
peaceful at the beginning but especially
the young people have come out uh to
show their anger that they might have to
be drafted and might have to join the
IDF to fight in Gaza
[Music]
prime minister Benyamin Netanyahu relies
on Ultra Orthodox parties to keep his
ruling Coalition together opposition
parties like yesha say they should no
longer get special treatment the ultra
Orthodox Community only makes up 133% of
the population and they're reluctant to
fight and a reluctant Soldier is not
always a good soldier so is it really in
Israel's National interest um to draft
them into the military of course now
that we are at War and the situation is
very complex we we've seen this week
what happened with Iran we need more
soldiers this is a necessity it's not
you know something that is nice to have
it's a necessity we need people to serve
in the Army and it's the right and moral
thing to do so I'm sure if we sit down
at the table we can reach some sort of
understandings in how to enlist these
people because it's very very important
and it's also a part of being an
Israeli despite the regional conflict
developing around them life here in the
ultra Orthodox neighborhood of Jerusalem
seems to go on undisturbed they're
determined to keep it that
way now Rebecca these protests add to
the domestic pressure Weighing on prime
minister Netanyahu give us a sense of
the headwinds he's facing within Israel
right
now well that's right Nicole I mean he's
really coming under a lot of pressure
the Coalition is under a lot of pressure
from so many sides you've got you know
the hostage families who are criticizing
his handling of the ceasefire talks uh
you've got plummeting of popularity
ratings uh and then this is another
really um important issue domestically
and something that could really threaten
uh the makeup of his Coalition you've
got more Centrist secular certainly uh
Centrist or Cent right parties and
politicians saying that they won't stand
by um a continuation of allowing the
herid men the ultra Orthodox to be
Exempted from the military this has
really come of course to aead at a time
when the Gaza war is Raging and Israel
is calling up more reservists and
therefore putting more pressure on the
fact that the ultra Orthodox you know in
the minds of of critics you know are not
pulling their weight when it comes to
the military but then of course you have
the other side uh in the Coalition
that's the ultra Orthodox parties and
those members saying that they just will
not stay in a coalition that allows this
uh to allows Ultra orthodox
to um go pushes them into the military I
should say so definitely something that
could uh threaten Benjamin netanyahu's
Coalition that adds to International
pressure Netanyahu has been meeting with
European diplomats whove urged restraint
in the response to Iran's weekend
attacks how's you responded to the
Diplomatic push there briefly if you
can yeah we are seeing uh some
diplomatic pressure going through we've
been hearing reports that strong
diplomatic pressure from the the US
actually shelved plans that the Israelis
had in place to uh conduct another
Counterattack uh on Iran and that has
been they have pulled back and they are
now waiting to see exactly how they'll
proceed so we are seeing that that
pressure from the US and from other
allies is taking an effect though Israel
Still Standing its ground saying it will
make the decision when it will attack
that it definitely will and of course
the nature of when and just how it will
happen is still uh unknown to pretty
much everyone that was our correspondent
Rebecca ritters in Jerusalem always
great speaking to you thank you so much